# Neuron-Simulator

Part I: Simulation of Simplified Discretized Leaky Integrate and Fire Neuron(a) Design a simulator of a leaky integrate and fire neuron according to the guidelines below.Look at an integrate and fire neuron as a "bucket" having a maximal capacity, C. There are (1) pipes entering the bucket corresponding to dendrites and a hole in the bucket with (2) a small leak of a certain constant rate, l. The pipes allow only particular amounts of water (i.e. charge) to enter at a time (these are the spikes). Each spike carries a fixed amount of charge Gamma.So in a simulation you have to keep track of the current value of C; and design updates at discrete time intervals, delta t, wherein C:= C(old) – leak x . times. delta t + Gamma .times. (the number of spikes entering the bucket during the time interval). To simplify the model connections allow a weight factor on each entry so C(new) ;= C(old) + sum ( w_i .times. Gamma times the number of spikes entering on dendrite i ) - leak rate * delta t.If at the new time C is bigger than threshold; output a spike.(b) Implement a coincidence detector with tolerance as describedbelow.Suppose such a neuron has two dendrites D_1 and D_2 with identical input weights (say of value 1). Assume the leak is small, say 1/50 of the size of a spike. Can you design a coincidence detector beween two events, E1 and E2 where the coincidence has to be within a certain tolerance (i.e. not necessarily at exactly the same time). Assume E1 causes a spike to be generated for D1 , E2 causes a spike to be generated for D2.(c) Dothesamewiththechangeindicatedbelowintheencodingof the events.1) Now assume that when E1 occurs, a spike train of five spikes is generated over consecutive discrete time steps 1 1 1 1 1 while
when E2 is generated 111 is generated. What has to change on the set up of the simulator?Implement the above situations and discuss what happens.
